# PERSONAL FREE INVENTORY
#### Video Demo:  <URL[https://youtu.be/S4en2s9H-gc]>
#### Description: As the name suggested I made an inventory for regular people or small bussiness totally open. I made it using the tools I was taught during the cs50 course. Make use of flask, sqlite3 (through sqlalchemy) and python with some extra imports to make the work easier and more robust.
### Templates: Right now the app is using 10 templates to work, being one of then the base one or layout. It has access through scripts to bootstrap and also to google icons (for some icons that were use on the design). It's worth to mention that is based on the cs50 week 9 finance project. It has a header, a flask script to show a nav bar when a user is logged in (this area an password change and an add tabs) and other when it's not (wich are the log in screen and the register one). Meanwhile the main is just a flask layout extension, and the footer wich is also only visible after log in is reuse from the homepage project I made at cs50, but functionality wise is barebones, because it was just added for design appeling proporses.
### It also has access to the apology tab showed on the cs50 week 9, used for errors, but at the end of the project I updated to be flashes wich are way more user friendly although i used to catch the error during development.
### Next we have the log out screens the classic log in wich is a form with a username and password fields, aside for a submit button and a forgot password hyperlink. The register screen wich is a form with the fields used on the project database (name, last_name, gender, e-mai, username, password, confirmation and a submit button), this fields were choosen for functionality and future analysis. The last screen we have access log out is the forgot one, wich is just a email input field so the server can verify it existence and send a mail to the owner for the reset process. Wich takes them to the password_forgot wich is just a new password an a confirmation field, with a temporal token for the user to update the password if it was requested by them.
### Last not the least is the logged in screens wich are the main index, wich display a table with all the items added by the user and the main fields of them (item, amount, cost, price, description, a image view, and two action buttons: edit and delete), there is also a password change screen based on the cs50 week 9 one with some minor code changes, it has 3 input fields, one for the old password, new password and the new password confirmation. At last it's one of the most important screens the add one, wich let the user add new items (it fields are item, amount, cost, price, description and img file, and the submit button). There is also the update screen wich is similar to the last mention, with the difference than this one is called by the edit button and carries the row wich is going to be modify data.
### Flask session: this folder contains the flask session cokies of the users wich are using the app.
### Instance: in this folder is save the app database, named project.db with just 2 tables at the moment, the users (id, name, last_name, gender, e-mai, username and hash) one and the data one (id, session_id, item, amount, cost, price, description, imag and mimetype).
### Static: with the styles of css (wich has some of the week 9 styles and some of the footer ones, all else where styless or bootstraped) and the tab icon.
### app.py: as a summary in this one I used multiple libraries (like the jwt for the tokens, flask_mail for mailing, datetime also for mailing and have precise time on my tokens, flask to the python-html interaction, wtforms for personalized forms, flask_sqlalchemy for the sqlite3 database connection and many more), for more reference go to the app.py file. After this we have the creation of some configs like the jwt token one, the data base conection, the session creation and the mailing configuration. Next is the data base tables creation and some functions mainly for the users one for the forgot password mailing and temporal token creation. Next we have a function to verify the existence of a token (not used that much since it also has session cookies), There is also some form creation one for items and the other for their updates (they could use the same since they share all fields in common). The last function declared was the send_mail one wich is name is self explaneatory, and use the verifications and creations of the user functions to send the message through flask_mail. There is also the after request function for the session control and the apology one from cs50 week9, and the login required one this two are on the helpers.py. Next is the login wich use the form of the log in html with somo python conditionals to filter the inputs, it also make use of the token and session for functionality reasons. Log out, straight the same of cs50 week 9, because the tokens disapper after some time and don’t need log out. The register use the same principle as the log in, its worth to mention that almost all of the routes use sqlalchemy and not cs50 sql for convinience reasons. The password reset it’s the same made on cs50 week 9 with some tweeks to fit on the libraries used. Then is the forgot route with the token creation, for the mail sending aside from the confirmation of the existence of the email on the data base, and the password forgot route wich verify the token and the id and if everything is ok give the user a form to update the account password. Next is the add route wich filter the form using the form creation through the wtflask forms. The img route takes the id of the image the user wants to see and show the picture as a response. The two last ones are update and delete both take the id of the row to work, the first one to fill the update form with the correct information and be able to update the row fast and confortably and the seccond to erase the selected row.
### That’s a summary of the app, and how it works for more information feel free to contact me. I hope you like it.
